Chapter 1 - Purpose and Scope of the NAO for  Management of NOAA’s Data and Information  A. Purpose  NAO 212-15B establishes the Department of Commerce (DOC) NOAA Data Management Policy. The purpose of the policy is to ensure data are treated as a strategic asset and managed to realize the maximum value from NOAA’s investment in observations, modeling, and research per the NOAA Data Strategy. This Data Management Handbook  assumes the full authority of the NAO to provide further guidance and details on how this policy is to be implemented. The intent of this Handbook is to define requirements, track performance objectives and metrics for executives to understand the current state and progress, as well as outline procedures that Assistant Chief Data Officers (ACDOs), data managers, program managers, project leads, data stewards, archivists, and data analysts, or any other roles involved in data life cycle management must take to meet the purpose of the NAO.  B. Policy Scope and Background  This Handbook is approved, issued, and maintained by the NOAA DGC pursuant to the authorities granted in NAO 212-15B, Management of Data and Information. The Handbook will be reviewed annually and updated every two years, or more frequently as needed. This Handbook supersedes the Environmental Data Management Framework and all previous Environmental Procedural Directives as issued by the Environmental Data Management Committee (EDMC). Any references to the previous EDMC Procedural Directives should be interpreted to reference this Handbook.  Background  Data management ensures maximum use, value, and trust of data by present and future generations by establishing processes and policies that enable broad discovery, access, interoperability, and reusability. It is intrinsic to data integrity, and data integrity is a vital component to scientific integrity, a core pillar of NOAA’s scientific efforts. Scientific integrity is important to everyone at NOAA, and it is our duty to present and future generations that depend on NOAA’s scientific legacy. While there are laws and regulations that guide the implementation of data management, the overarching goal is to enable innovation to address environmental and societal challenges.  This Handbook is based on current applicable laws and regulations (Appendix A) related to data management as well as our Agency’s and the federal data community standards and best practices. In particular, the Handbook builds off of and addresses elements of the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act (the Evidence Act), Department of Commerce 2022-2026 Strategic Plan, NOAA’s Data Strategy, and the NOAA Public Access to Research Results (PARR) Plan. Recognizing that these strategies and plans will change over time, this Handbook is intended to be a living document that can be updated to reflect changes in rules, regulations, strategies, and plans.  Below is a brief history and description of a series of guiding policy documents that form the foundation of this document.  In 2002, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued Circular A-16 to provide a coordinated approach to managing geospatial data across the federal government. OMB issued supplemental guidance in 2010 to “facilitate the adoption and implementation of a coordinated and effective federal geospatial asset management capability.”  In 2013, OMB issued Open Data Policy (OMB Memorandum M-13-13) directing all agencies to “manage information as an asset throughout its life cycle to promote openness and interoperability, and properly safeguard systems and information.” Similarly, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) issued a Memorandum on February 22, 2013 entitled “Increasing Access to the Results of Federally Funded Research” directing each federal agency that conducts over $100 million annually in research and development expenditures to develop a plan to support increased public access to the results of that research. In response to the OSTP Memorandum, the NOAA Research Council issued the NOAA Plan for Increasing Public Access to Research Results (PARR) in February 2015.  In addition, the Foundations for Evidence-Based Policymaking Act of 2018 (also referred to as the Evidence Act) requires agencies to modernize data management practices. In particular, Title II of the law, the OPEN Government Act, requires agencies to create Open Data Plans to make federal data publicly available by default and provide comprehensive searchable data inventories of all agency data assets.  The NOAA Data Strategy, issued in July 2020, is consistent with the OMB Memorandum, M-19-18 Federal Data Strategy - A Framework for Consistency, and the Federal Data Strategy’s 2020 Action Plan. It builds upon statutes and OMB information policy and guidance, with supplementary guidance on how agencies should manage and use federal data. As with the Federal Data Strategy, the NOAA Data Strategy will constantly evolve to be regularly updated for consistency with new statutory or OMB information policy guidance. The NOAA Data Strategy is consistent with the Department of Commerce Strategic Plan for 2022-2026, the NOAA Information Resources Management Strategic Plan 2021-2025, and the NOAA 2020 Business Brief.  Finally, in August of 2022 OSTP released a Memorandum, “Ensuring Free, Immediate, and Equitable Access to Federally Funded Research”, that updates the PARR requirements requiring data to be available at the time of publication.  In addition to the laws and policies, in the environmental data community there are the principles of Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Reusable (FAIR), Collective Benefit,